Copyright (c) 2007 stickmanlabs
Additions (c) 2009 Thomas von Deyen | thinkworkdone

Author: Kevin P Miller | http://www.stickmanlabs.com
Additional Author: Thomas von Deyen | http://www.thinkworkdone.com

Prototype 1.6 fixes by the_coder via http://snipplr.com/view/5502/stickman-labs-accordion-updated-for-prototypejs-16-/

= Accordion v2.1

This is the Prototype 1.6 compatible Version of Stickmanlabs Accordion V2.0 with additional afterComplete option.

You'll need Prototype 1.6 and Scriptaculous 1.8.2 too to make this work.

== Usage

Include Prototype, Scriptaculous and Accordion in the head section of your HTML file like:

  <script src="js/prototype.js" lang="text/javascript"></script>
  <script src="js/scriptaculous.js?load=effects" lang="text/javascript"></script>
  <script src="js/accordion.js" lang="text/javascript"></script>

Put 'prototype.js', 'scriptaculous.js', 'effects.js' and 'accordion.js' in a folder named 'js' inside the rootpath of your website.

Make an accordion with following layout:

	<div id="accordion">
	  <h2 class="accordion_toggle">Category A</h2>
	  <div class="accordion_content">
	  	<p>Content of your Accordion can be everything like:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>Listitems</li>
				<li>divs</li>
				<li>ps</li>
				<li>spans</li>
				<li>tables</li>
				<li>etc...</li>
			</ul>
			<p>Just place it inside the div with the classname passed to the accordion.js options.</p>
	  </div>
	  <h2 class="accordion_toggle">Category B</h2>
	  <div class="accordion_content">
	  	<p>More content....</p>
	  </div>
	  <h2 class="accordion_toggle">Category C</h2>
	  <div class="accordion_content">
	  	<p>More content....</p>
	  </div>
		etc...
	</div>

At the very bottom of you page, right before the closing </body> tag place this javascript source

	<script type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8">
	// <![CDATA[
		var my_accordion = new Accordion('accordion');
	// ]]>
	</script>

You can style the accordion as you like. But assure to hide overflowing accordion_content like:

	.accordion_content {overflow: hidden;}

That's it! If you want more control of you accordion pass some of these options:

  resizeSpeed: Everything below 8 (the default) is fast.
  classNames: {
	  toggle       : 'some_classname',
	  toggleActive : 'some_classname',
	  content      : 'some_classname'
  }
  direction: If you want to make an horizontal accordion then pass 'horizontal'. Default is 'vertical'.
  onEvent: A eventname without the 'on'. I.e. 'mouseover', 'mousedown', or 'click' (the default).
  afterComplete: A function called after animating the accordions open/close action. Interesting for nested links, i.e. in navigations. So you can wait the effect to finish before redirecting to the other page.

== Navigation Accordion Example

This is a more complex example that shows the usage of the 'afterComplete' option.

  <style type="text/css">
		.navi_sub_items{overflow: hidden;}
	</style>
  <div id="navigation">
    <div class="navi_item">
			<a href="/pets">Pets</a>
		</div>
    <div class="navi_sub_items">
      <ul>
				<li>Kittens</li>
				<li>Puppies</li>
				<li>Mice</li>
			</ul>
    </div>
    <div class="navi_item">
			<a href="/services">Services</a>
		</div>
		<div class="navi_sub_items">
			<ul>
				<li>Dog Hairdressing</li>
				<li>Cat Massage</li>
				<li>Mice milking</li>
			</ul>
		</div>
    <div class="navi_item">
			<a href="/info">Info</a>
		</div>
		<div class="navi_sub_items">
			<ul>
				<li>Contact</li>
				<li>About</li>
				<li>Legal</li>
			</ul>
		</div>
  </div>
	<script type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8">
	// <![CDATA[
		var navigation = new Accordion('navigation', {
			classNames: {
				toggle: 'navi_item',
				toggleActive: 'navi_active',
				content: 'navi_sub_items'
			},
			afterComplete: function(){
				toggle = $$('#navigation .navi_active')[0];
				url = toggle.down('a').readAttribute('href');
				window.location = url;
			}
		});
	// ]]>
	</script>

== Activate-accordion-content-on-page-load Example

You want to open one or more accordion content divs on page load? Then add 'accordion_toggle_active' to the toggle you want to be opened and take this script.

	<script type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8">
	// <![CDATA[
		var my_accordion = new Accordion('accordion');
	// ]]>
	</script>
	<script type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8">
	// <![CDATA[
		var active_accordions = $$('#accordion .accordion_toggle_active');
		active_accordions.each(function(toggle) {
			var content = toggle.next(0);
			content.setStyle({
				height: 'auto',
				display: 'block'
			});
			my_accordion.showAccordion = content;
		});
	// ]]>
	</script>

More examples on http://www.stickmanlabs.com/accordion/

== License
Accordion is freely distributable under the terms of an MIT-style license. See included MIT-LICENSE file
